Laniqua Webb
February 5 2015
Problem Solving Assignment

Current Situation 1:
    -There is a man who finds it difficult to transport 3 items to
the opposite side of the river using only 1 boat.

    -The overall goal is for all of the item to safely arrive to the other side of the riverbank.

Constraints
1.Cat could eat the Parrot
2.Parrot would eat the bag of seed
3. The boat is too small to carry all 3 items and the man at the same time

Goals:
    -While the main goal is to get to the other side of the riverbank the sub goal is to make sure
    that both the Parrot and bag of seed are not eaten in the process

Potential Solutions:
1. The man could take the cat in the boat and allow the Parrot to fly alongside the boat to get to the other side once they are on the other side the parrot could ride in the boat with the man to go back and get the bag of seed and then travel back to the other side with the seed in the boat and the Parrot flying along side.

2. The man could leave the bag of seed and the cat and take the bird to the other side of the river then come back for the bag of seed and take it to a the area that is midpoint and go back for the cat and take him to the other side and get the bird and take him to where the bag of seed is leave him there get the seed and take the seed to the other side where the cat is then go get the bird and take him to the other side with the cat and the bag of seed.

3. The man could walk to the other side of the riverbank with all of his items.

Evaluation:
Solution 1 could only work if the bird can fly the distance it takes to get to the other side of the boat over water.
Solution 2 is the most logical and although it maybe time consuming it will be the best option.
Solution 3 will only work if the distance around the river is realistic for the man to travel by foot with all of his items.

Final Solution:

The final solution will be based off of solution 2 just a bit better developed. The man will first travel in his boat with the parrot and take him to the midpoint land area, he will go back to get the cat and take him to the other side of the riverbank (goal 1 met) then he will go back and get the bag of seed and take it to the other side of the riverbank (goal 2 met) then he will go to the midpoint area to get the Parrot and take him to the other side of the riverbank (goal 3 met). This will get the man and his items to the other side safely.

